Buffett chimed in that if you taught the bird in the hand maxim, you
would not get tenure. Rising in the priesthood requires complexity.
Fortunately for shareholders, macro predictions are not essential to the Berkshire process.
Intelligent capital allocation is the essence of sound wealth-building.
He clearly believes equities are the superior choice to bonds and cash at this time.
Buffett noted that one possible side effect of the weaker dollar could be significant inflation. It is tempting for governments to devalue what they owe to reduce the burden of debt repayment.
Munger finished with a flourish, Seeing as Ill be optimistic when Im nearly dead, surely the rest of you can handle a little inflation.
Buffett declared the best inflation hedge is a company with a wonderful product that requires little capital to grow.
Munger asserted that all intelligent people base decisions on opportunity costs. The alternative returns available should weigh on whether you make a particular investment. It is freshman economics.
He emphasized that there is no possibility of U.S. default because it prints its own currency and can simply print more money.
Buffett noted that the analytical hurdle for buying a bond requires answering the question, Will the company go out of business? while buying an equity requires answering the more difficult question, Will the company prosper?
Instead, investors should focus on gains in operating earnings, gains in book value and gains in intrinsic value.
Buffett suggested that investors stay away from businesses they dont understand well.
Buffett noted that investing is really all about laying out cash now to get more back later.
Value is the only concern for any economic commitment. To calculate your expected return, compute the discounted present value of the flow of all cash from the business between now and judgment day.
Buffett shared his usual advice that the average investor would do fine to simply buy shares of an index fund over time.
Munger spoke about Berkshires competitive advantages. In his mind, those include the ability to stay sane when others are crazy.
